## TOOLS Explained

In the [tools folder](https://github.com/RetroAppleJS/AppleII-IDE/tree/main/tools), we keep a collection of helpers to simulate, better understand or automate processes supporting the development of the IDE.  Every tool is designed to run in the browser, just like the IDE, using HTML/CSS/JavaScript.

### DOCS_updater.html

We aim to have all the documentation available in markdown format, for easy online access and editing in GitHub.  Docs_updater.html was designed to read all the markdown documentation available online in this project, and compile a JavaScript include file that would provide a perfect copy of all the available documentation inside the IDE.  The following diagram shows how clearly the steps:  
* Fetch Readme.me file from GitHub
* extract all \*.md file links located in /docs
* fetch all listed .md files
* convert each to HTML and append to JavaScript file
* preview
* download the JavaScript file
* overwite file in /docs folder.


        <div style=width:800px>
        ┌──────────┐          ┌────┐ ┌───────────┐       ┌──────────────────┐
        │Readme.md │          │*.md│ │Showdown.js│       │ COM_markdown.css │
        └────┬─────┘          └─┬──┘ └─────┬─────┘       └────────┬─────────┘
             │XmlHttp()         |XmlHttp() │include               |include
        ┌────┴─────────┐     ┌──┴──────────┴─────┐       ┌────────┴─────────┐     ┌────────────────────┐
        │Extract *.md  │     │Read next .md file,│       | Preview/test HTML|     | Download JS file   |
        │links located ├─────┤convert to HTML &  ├───┐───┤ generated by     ├─────┤ _GENERATED_DOCS.js | 
        │in /docs      │  ▲  │append to JS file  |   │   | JavaScript file  |     |(overwrite in /docs)|
        └──────────────┘  │  └───────────────────┘   │   └──────────────────┘     └────────────────────┘
                          │    loop until done       │
                          └──────────────────────────┘
        </div>

/<ins> **!** </ins>\ mind that DOCS_updater.html only captures the latest version of the markdown files 2-10 min after the last edits.  This must be the time GitHub requires to update the raw files on the server.

### Monitor_palette.html

Color graphics never really impressed on the Apple II, even if owners of a razor-sharp monochrome green or amber monitor often longed to see some color, noone at the time would exchange a color for a genuine crisp monochrome monitor.
The emulator's display however offers an easy switching capability to render in color, black&white, green and amber as some graphics really look nicer in color or monochrome.
This tool was made to test and assure the best image rendering approximation with these respective monitors.
It produces a Javascript snippet that seamlessly maps the Apple II colors to the different monochrome versions.  This snippet is located in [EMU_apple2video.js](https://github.com/RetroAppleJS/AppleII-IDE/blob/main/res/EMU_apple2video.js).

### Tab_ctrl_v*.html

This is a fully client-side tab controller that remembers the last clicked tab after a page reload, based on the URI fragment identifier.  e.g. www.example.com/index.html#tab1
Subsequent versions of this tab control show increasingly interesting capabilities and design options.

|         | pop-out<br>menu | sub-<br>menu | anima-<br>tion |
|---------|--------------|-----------|---------------|
| v0      | -            | -         | -            |
| v1      | YES          | -         | -            |
| v2      | YES          | YES       | -            |
| v3      | -            |           | YES          |

